>> Kyle: Let's simplify.
Let's try to find that beautiful
program inside of that ugly program.
Let's try to find what OLOO, Objects
Linked to Other Objects looks like.
>> Kyle: Here's that old and busted code,
okay?
Remember the prototypes and
all of the ugly, unnecessary complexity.
And you recall that I pointed out that the
beautiful part of this program is the b1
object links to the Bar.prototype
object linked to the Foo.prototype.
Unfortunately, to get that object in
linkage we had to do all this other stuff.
What if i could show you how to make those
objects without all that other complexity?
What if we could just
link objects together?
So what I'm gonna do is walk you quickly
through a derivation of OLOO's style,
step by step.
You don't have to do all
these steps yourself,
it just shows you how to refactor,
if you will,
to embrace OLOO's style.
>> Kyle: So
what I'm going to do is little by little
remove the unnecessary complexity and
replace it with a simplicity.
>> Kyle: In other words,
I'm gonna perform a Vegas style magic
trick right before your very eyes.
But unlike a Vegas magician who
wants to distract you over here so
you don't see how the trick is done,
I wanna show you exactly what to look at.
I want you to keep your eye
on those three objects.
Because the changes that I'm
about to make to this code
are gonna have absolutely zero
functional impact on the code.
It will have exactly the same behavior,
it'll just have a cleaner,
simpler style of getting there.
Keep your eye on those objects and
don't get lost.
The first step of my magic trick is
that new keyword down there on line 17.
I got to get rid of that new function
call, cuz the new keyword is the gateway
to doing poorly designed
class oriented coding.
If I could remove the new keyword
from JavaScript, I would.
I don't think there's any need for
it whatsoever.
>> Kyle: So
let's get rid of the new keyword.
You remember how I told you before
that the new keyword does four things.
It creates, it links,
it passes in, and it returns.
If you divide those into two separate
things, you'll notice that the first two
are kind of about creation and the second
two are kind of about initialization.
The new system does two different things,
creation and initialization.
I wanna separate those.
That's how we're gonna get
rid of the new keyword.
So what I'm gonna do is replace
the new keyword with an Object.create
call that does the first two things.
It creates and links, and then, line 18,
I'm gonna call the bar functions so
that we do the initialization.
Now, that code does look a little bit,
well,
more verbose for sure than the previous
version of the new keyword.
Just hold on because we're gonna
make that code better too.
But I would argue that even
though it looks more verbose now,
it's actually simpler.
Simpler by definition that
it's not conflated together.
We have two separate steps.
Have you ever needed to create
an object but not initialize it?
Maybe you've created like objects
in an object pool before.
I've done that on many occasions.
When you use the new keyword you don't
have that option, so what do you do?
You make an empty constructor so
that it creates but
it doesn't do any initialization.
Why don't we just give ourselves
the utility that allows us to just create
without initialization,
that's what Object.create does.
So I would argue that even though this
is more verbose, it's actually simpler.
But we're gonna work on
the verbosity as well.
>> Kyle: We still have a b1 object linked
to a Bar.prototype linked
to a Foo.prototype.
Same behavior.
>> Kyle: The next step of my magic
trick is to take all the references
to Bar.prototype and get rid of them.
And in fact,
get rid of the bar function entirely.
Because we don't really
need a bar function.
The function is really not even necessary.
>> Kyle: So
I'm just gonna make a bar object instead
of a bar function with a bar prototype
object.
>> Kyle: Line 8 creates a bar object using
Object.create and make sure that it's
prototype link where it needs to be.
And you'll notice that I just start
adding methods directly to bar,
Bar.init, bar.speak.
Why do I need a bar.protoype when
I can just do a bar object itself?
Because the bar function with a prototype
object was just an indirection of
complexity.
>> Kyle: Now look at how much
simpler line 16 and line 17 look.
To make a b1, I just make a b1
that Object.creates from bar.
There's no Bar.prototype there.
And to call this init function,
I just say b1.init, and
I let this binding rules do what they do.
>> Kyle: And
I still have a b1 linked
to a Bar linked to
a Foo.prototype.
>> Kyle: One
last step to this magic trick.
I need to do the exact same thing
to Foo.prototype that I just did to
Bar.prototype.
We don't need a foo function and
we definitely don't need
foo.prototypes cluttering up the code.
We just need a foo object.
>> Kyle: So
now I have a foo object with
methods directly on it.
That init function that I temporarily
had on bar has now been moved up to foo
because you know what?
That's the place where
the initialization was happening anyway.
That whole indirection of constructors
thing was just unnecessary complexity.
So now I have an init, I'm linking
to foo I have an init there and
when I, down on line 17 call b1.init.
It delegates two levels up the chain to
that init function calls it in the context
of b1 and adds the me property to it.
>> Kyle: And
at the end of the day,
I still have a b1 linked to a Bar linked
a Foo.
>> Kyle: Now I don't know about you,
but I look at that code,
that expression of the program, and
I feel like there's a lot
fewer moving pieces.
There's a lot less mental overhead to
juggle syntactically, and conceptually.
That's what I call OLOO style code.
OLOO embraces real true object
oriented programming without classes.
It embraces that the power of JavaScript
is to be able to create objects and
link them together and
use delegation between them.
>> Kyle: So this is the OLOO style of
code, wired up with the b1 and b2 in it.
So now we've got both
of those objects being
created.
>> Kyle: And
here's our Object.create function.
This is the polyfill for Object.create.
Look at what I'm doing here.
I'm making an object and I'm linking its
dunder proto to the o that I asked for.
So it's actually not a very
complex concept at all.
I just make an object and link it.
But this isn't really the polyfill.
You know what the real polyfill is?
>> Kyle: That's the real polyfill.
And you'll notice something
interesting about what it's doing.
It makes a function that
nobody cares about,
it sets it's prototype and
it calls new against it.
Same equivalent outcome behavior.
What I love about this visualization, and
it may be lost on you, because I see some
tired faces at this point in the workshop.
But this is actually my favorite
slide in the entire workshop.
What I love about this slide
is that it points out just
how pointless those functions and dot
prototypes and new keywords actually were.
I took all of that complexity
out of the program and
hid it inside of Object.create.
>> Kyle: It really
hammers home the point that all we care
about is linking objects together.
>> Kyle: And it's not just simpler style,
I would also argue,
it's simpler mental models as well.
Here's the old and busted code,
the prototype style code,
and here's the old and
busted mental model.
>> Kyle: We
could ask the question,
was ES6 class any better?
Maybe, it certainly was
syntactically a bit nicer.
Still had a bunch of conceptual
problems under the covers.
The mental model is not
significantly better.
I claim OLOO as the new hotness.
This foo and
bar object in the b1 that links to it, but
here's the real big pay off,
the simplified mental model.
Cuz it really just embraces that
the only thing we need to know about is
the objects linked to other objects.
That's the only thing that
ever mattered anyway.